# Mobile Devices
4.. Your company is concerned about how laptops and other remote devices can be secured when they are used by employees at home or on the road. Which of the following can be used to enforce policies and remove corporate applications remotely? (Choose two.) A. GSM B. CDMA C. MAM D. MDM
 C, D. Mobile Application Management (MAM) protects corporate data while being used on employee’s personal devices. For example, it can force employees to save all work files in the company’s OneDrive cloud storage, encrypt files and delete them after a period of time, and restrict employees from downloading company content. It can even delete company files when a device has become inactive. Mobile Device Management (MDM) systems can be used to remotely wipe data from a device and restore it to factory settings. Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) and Code-Division Multiple Access (CDMA) are cellular technology communication systems.


8.. A coworker is having a problem with their laptop and has asked you to fix it. When an external keyboard is plugged in, the laptop works just fine, but without it, strange characters appear on the screen when typing. Which of the following are likely causes? (Choose two.) A. The driver is corrupted and needs to be updated/replaced. B. The ribbon cable connecting the keyboard to the motherboard is partially disconnected and needs to be reseated. C. The operating system needs to be reinstalled. D. There is debris under the keys.
 A, B. Corrupted drivers and loose cables can cause all sorts of interesting output. Strange 
characters on the screen don’t necessarily mean that the laptop needs to be replaced, and 
users should be discouraged from eating cookies or toast (or anything) over their laptops. 
Fine crumbs or other debris can cause keys to stick, but that likely wouldn’t cause the type of 
problem that this user is experiencing. Oftentimes, a laptop keyboard can be replaced fairly 
easily, assuming a compatible one can be found. But in this case, the problem is most likely 
caused by a loose ribbon cable connecting the keyboard to the motherboard, or a corrupted 
driver.


# Networking
2..C. Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) is a secure protocol designed to download email. It has several advantages over the older Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3). First, IMAP4 works in connected and disconnected modes. Second, it lets you store the email on the server, as opposed to POP3, which requires you to download it. Third, IMAP4 enables multiple clients to be simultaneously connected to the same inbox. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is used for sending mail, and Server Message Block (SMB) is used when sharing files across a network. 
3.. A. The Domain Name System (DNS) server is responsible for resolving hostnames, such as www.google.com, to IP addresses to enable communication. If it’s not working properly or you can’t connect to it, you won’t be able to browse the Internet using human-friendly website names. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is used to assign IP addresses to network clients. The subnet mask might be incorrect, but it wouldn’t likely be missing, and a duplicate IP address would provide an error message stating so.
4.. B. Secure Shell (SSH) can be used to set up a secure session over port 22 for remote logins, or for remotely executing programs and transferring files. Because it’s secure, it was originally designed to be a replacement for the unsecure telnet command. SSH and Telnet are both the name of the respective protocols, and the commands used. The Server Message Block (SMB) protocol, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), and FTP Secure (FTPS) protocols are used to share files across a network.
5.. B. Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM) is a process that combines two AM channels into one, effectively doubling the bandwidth of modern Wi-Fi protocols. Quality of Service (QoS) is configured to give priority to a user or application. Power over Ethernet (PoE) provides electrical power over Ethernet cables and Ethernet over Power (EoP) enables a user to enlist already established electrical cables to carry Ethernet signals; it requires the use of special adapters that plug into regular power outlets
16.. B. A Wide Area Network (WAN) covers large geographical areas and often supports thousands of users. A WAN can connect different locations of a single company, or a WAN may connect several companies together to share information. WAN lines are often leased from a WAN provider. The Internet is considered a very large WAN. A Local Area Network (LAN) covers a relatively small area such as a home or business. A Personal Area Network (PAN) is typically used by one person and is comprised of their computer and its Bluetooth devices. A Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) is similar to a WAN, but the area covered is much smaller, such as a university or a city.

18.. B. Secure Shell (SSH) can be used to set up a secure session for remote logins, or for remotely executing programs and transferring files. SSH uses port 22. SSH has largely replaced the unsecured Telnet, which uses port 23. Port 21 is used by File Transfer Protocol (FTP) and port 25 is used by Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP.)

19.. A. 10.1.1.1 is a private IP address, and therefore not routable on the Internet. Private IP addresses can only be used on the LAN side of a router. The other answer options are all routable. IPv4 network numbers were arranged in classes, and classes A, B, and C each have their own private range. The private IP address range for class A networks is 10.0.0.0/8. The /8 means that the first 8 bits of the subnet mask denote the network number. Expressing a subnet mask this way is known as CIDR (pronounced cider) notation. CIDR stands for classless inter-domain routing. While the term CIDR doesn’t appear on the objectives for this CompTIA A+ exam, you may still run into it while working in IT.

20.. D. One of the key features of routers is that they break up broadcast domains. Broadcast traffic from one port of the router will not get passed to the other ports, which greatly reduces network traffic. Bridges, hubs, and switches will all forward broadcast packets

22.. C. A loopback plug is for testing the ability of a network adapter to send and receive. The plug gets plugged into the Network Interface Card (NIC), and then a loopback test is performed using troubleshooting software. You can then tell whether the card is working properly. Multimeters are used for testing power supplies and wall outlets, a tone generator and probe help the technician to find a specific wire, and a cable tester checks that an Chapter 2: Networking 407 Ethernet wire was configured correctly, and that it can make an end-to-end connection. If the NIC tests fine, the next step might be testing the cable.

24.. C, D. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP, port 25), Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3, port 110), and Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP, port 143) are all email protocols. SMTP is for sending email. POP3 and IMAP are for downloading (i.e., receiving) email. Port 23 is used by Telnet. Choice B is incorrect because the question specifically asks about downloading (not sending) email, and yes, some of the CompTIA questions are this particular.