#Easy #Array #Two_Pointers
[Remove Duplicates From Sorted Array - NeetCode](https://neetcode.io/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array?list=neetcode150)
Given an integer array `nums` sorted in **non-decreasing order**, remove the duplicates [**in-place**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm) such that each unique element appears only **once**. The **relative order** of the elements should be kept the **same**.

Consider the number of _unique elements_ in `nums` to be `k**​​​​​​​**`​​​​​​​. After removing duplicates, return the number of unique elements `k`.

The first `k` elements of `nums` should contain the unique numbers in **sorted order**. The remaining elements beyond index `k - 1` can be ignored.

**Custom Judge:**

The judge will test your solution with the following code:

int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}

If all assertions pass, then your solution will be **accepted**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [1,1,2]
**Output:** 2, nums = [1,2,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4]
**Output:** 5, nums = [0,1,2,3,4,_,_,_,_,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

# Solution
## Overview

The problem would have been simpler if we are allowed to use extra space.

We can create a map which stores all **unique array elements** as the key and **element frequency** as the value.

After populating our map, we get all the unique elements from our array.

We then iterate our map and push all the keys in our input array

However, without using extra space it makes it a bit tricky as we have to modify the existing input array

---

## Approach 1: Two indexes approach

#### Intuition

To solve the problem, let's look at the condition carefully,

> It is **guaranteed** that the given array is a **sorted array**.

Let `k` be the count of unique elements in our input array.

> It doesn't matter what elements we place after the first `k` elements.

From the condition, we can have a few observations here,

- Since the array we have is sorted, all duplicate values will be one after the other.
    
- We need to update the first `k` elements in an array with unique values and return the value of `k`.
    

Using the following intuition, let's understand how to address this problem.

- The problem states that we need to fill the first `k` elements of an array with unique values
- For doing so, we modify the input array in-place so that we don't use extra space
- In order to perform in-place operations, we use the **Two indexes** approach
- The **first index** updates the value in our input array while reading the data from the **second index**

> First Index is responsible for writing unique values in our input array, while Second Index will read the input array and pass all the distinct elements to First Index.

- We continue the above steps until the **second index** reaches the end of an array

#### Algorithm

By analyzing the above three key observations, we can derive the following algorithm,

- Start both indexes `(insertIndex, i)` from 1.

> `insertIndex` and `i` represents our First and second Index respectively.

- Check if the previous element is different from the current element

> The previous element is the element just before our `i` index i.e element present at `arr[i-1]`

- If found different then perform `arr[insertIndex] = arr[i]` and increment `insertIndex` by 1
    
- Increment `i` index by 1 till we reach end of the array
    
    > Note: After reaching the end of the array, our **insertIndex** variable will hold the count of unique elements in our input array.

#### Implementation

```
class Solution:
    def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        size = len(nums)
        insertIndex = 1
        for i in range(1, size):
            # Found unique element
            if nums[i - 1] != nums[i]:
                # Updating insertIndex in our main array
                nums[insertIndex] = nums[i]
                # Incrementing insertIndex count by 1
                insertIndex = insertIndex + 1
        return insertIndex
```

#### Complexity Analysis

Let N be the size of the input array.

- Time Complexity: O(N), since we only have 2 pointers, and both the pointers will traverse the array at most once.
    
- Space Complexity: O(1), since we are not using any extra space.


# Alternative Solutions
## ✅ Method 2: Two-pointers

### 🤔 Initial Intuition:

Use a `slow` pointer to "lock" the "wanted" element, and use a `fast` pointer to move forward along the list and look for new unique elements in the list.  
Or, in other words, the current `slow` pointer is used to locate the latest unique number for the results, and `fast` is used for iterating and discovery.

Have `fast` advanced in every iteration, but `slow` is only advanced when two pointers are onto two different elements.

That means, the elements after `nums[slow]` and before `nums[fast]` are numbers we've **seen** before and don't need anymore (one copy of these numbers is already saved before the current `slow` (inclusive)).

Therefore, in order to have this newly discovered (unseen) number pointed by the current `fast` to the front of the array for the final answer, we just need to swap this newly discovered number to the location that follows the current `slow` pointer, with one of the **seen** numbers (we don't need it for the answer regardlessly), and then advance the `slow` in the same iteration to lock this new number.

```java
	def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
		slow, fast = 0, 1
		while fast in range(len(nums)):
			if nums[slow] == nums[fast]:
				fast += 1
			else:
				nums[slow+1] = nums[fast]
				fast += 1
				slow += 1

		return slow + 1
```

### ❇️ Simplified two-pointers with for loops:

💡 However, observe, `fast` pointer is simply incremented in every iteration regardless of the conditions, that's just a typical for loop's job. Therefore, we can simplify this "two-pointers" system as follows:

```java
	def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
		j = 0
		for i in range(1, len(nums)):
			if nums[j] != nums[i]:
				j += 1
				nums[j] = nums[i]
		return j + 1
```

**Time Complexity:** `O(n)`  
**Space Complexity:** `O(1)`

---

## Method 3: Using `.pop()`

```php
	def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
		i = 1
		while i < len(nums):
			if nums[i] == nums[i - 1]:
				nums.pop(i)
			else:
				i += 1
		return len(nums)
```

---

## Method 4: Using `OrderedDict.fromkeys()`

```python
from collections import OrderedDict
class Solution(object):
    def removeDuplicates(self, nums):
        nums[:] =  OrderedDict.fromkeys(nums)
        return len(nums)
```

---

---

As a total beginner, I am writing these all out to help myself, and hopefully also help anyone out there who is like me at the same time.

Please upvote⬆️ if you find this helpful or worth-reading for beginners in anyway.  
Your upvote is much more than just supportive to me. 😳🤓🥰

If you find this is not helpful, needs improvement, or is questionable, would you please leave a quick comment below to point out the problem before you decide to downvote? It will be very helpful for me (maybe also others) to learn as a beginner.

Thank you very much either way 🤓.